Hello, my friends. Welcome back. Um,
this is our VIP session for day
three of the Emotional Freedom Challenge,
and as we get started today, I would love to
introduce you... Janelle, if you can get your, camera and your
mic.
Yes, here I am.
Janelle, hey-
It's a bit... Hey, I switched my watch to my right hand.
Me too.
So we'll see how this goes today. Yes.
We'll see how... How does it feel?
It is weird. Like, I, I... Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah.
I, yeah, I mean, it's like, I'm like, "Oh, wait.
Oh yeah, it's on this hand." You know what I mean? So.
This, this will instruct your brain about a couple of things.
Yeah.
I need to give a little introduction of you, and you can, you can clear up
anything that I get wrong, okay?
Yeah. It's all good. Yeah.
Janelle Brown is joining us today as our special guest
here in our VIP room. Um, Janelle
is a certified master coach positivity
practitioner.
I, I consider you, Janelle, to be an
influencer in, in the-
Oh, maybe. Eh.
I think about it. Okay. We're going over the influence quadrant today.
Oh, yeah. Okay.
And what, what that means is you have a way of connecting
with people and, and getting them to think about things a little
differently. You have a very rich history.
Um, and for you who are listening, Janelle comes
from years now of
reality television. She's very well known
for her, her role in a particular television
show that you can share or not share, as you choose, Janelle.
But, uh-
Yeah
... you have since transitioned from a lot of the
life that was depicted in that reality television show
to a whole new life.
A whole new life. Whole new life.
That, to me, that represents transformation.
It represents the growth and the learning
that we can do as humans, and now you are actively
engaged in helping other people to
define what their next chapter gets to look
like.
Yeah.
And that just inspires the heck out of me, so thank you- ...
for joining me to have a little discussion.
It does. I'm, I'm a little bit, a- I'm a little bit awestruck to be here.
I'm like, "I'm not sure I have anything super interesting to say," but, you
know, we'll, we'll roll with it and see what happens.
You just ask me some good questions or whatever.
We'll roll with it. And Janelle, you know, I, I, I couch
that in what I've been able to
observe. Now, I wasn't a follower or a fan of your
television show. Uh, my apologies.
I don't know if you-
No, that's fine with me. Yeah.
... kids or not, but.
That's fine with me. Yeah, probably not the demographic generally. Yeah.
There's a lot of shows I don't watch 'cause I don't spend-
Yeah
... a lot of time on TV. But,
what I've noticed and what you represent to me, when, when I got to meet you, we
were at an event in Park City.
Mm-hmm.
And I was one of the trainers at that event.
You were one of the participants.
Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
And you were working on establishing yourself more as a coach-
Mm-hmm
... and as someone who can actually work directly with people
that you've been influencing from the screen, but you haven't had-
Mm-hmm
... really a personal, chance to really work with
them. And what I've observed, Janelle, is that
you latch onto the
psychological principles. I think you're somebody who is very psychologically
savvy, and when you see a true
principle, your brain just latches onto it, and then you find ways to apply
that-
Yeah
... with the people that you're serving.
Yeah.
Okay.
I, I love it. It's fascinating to me.
And you and I have long conversations about, you know, all those things.
I'm like, "What about this, and what about this?" So.
Yeah.
You know? So.
And coaches need coaches.
Yeah.
Right? So-
Yeah. They do
... I'd like to talk about a few times about-
Yeah.
Janelle, what is sticking and clicking for you from
today's
session? Is there something that jumped out-
Yeah
... at you that you wanna just have a little chat about?
You know, I think it's kinda like the, there's kind of an overarching theme,
right? And Viktor Frankl, he said, like, the last of the freedom is to choose your
thoughts, I think. Is that what the last freedom is?
I'm not sure. Attitude was the word you used.
And so... Attitude. That was what it was, his attitude.
Yeah.
Um, 'cause it was so interesting. Last night somebody asked me, I was doing a, a
presentation, someone asked me, they're like, "What do you think is the most
important thing
to take away from, you know, everything that we've been talking
about?" And I, I had to think about it for a minute, and I thought, you know what?
There's always a choice, and I think that
resonates, right, with the positivity model and the, the
agent or the victim. Like, there's always a choice, and I
think sometimes we don't realize there's a choice.
I left that whole, "I can't" thing. I had to think about that. I wrote that down.
I'm like, where do I say I can't in my life?
And it just shuts down choice. It just shuts down choice.
Yeah.
But, you know, I think the trick is to f-
to
first of all probably tell ourselves that there's a choice 'cause I don't think
that we're always aware that there's a choice.
Yeah.
I, yeah, I think that's the big thing, is we don't realize it because sometimes,
man, you can really get
into it. Like, you're in a, you're in a spiral.
You feel like there's just no way out.
Um, like to the point where you don't even, you couldn't even
apply
this thinking, right? The positivity model.
Sometimes you get so far deep, and it, it's
hard to realize that there's a choice.
And so I've been pondering that since that question last night,
and, I've been grateful for my training as a coach to give
me some awareness, right? The metacognition and all of that, some awareness of how
to s- to, to see my thoughts, to be aware of my feelings.
But, you know, I just wonder, like sometimes-When you get so far
in, so far deep, how, what's the helping hand that
you, that reaches out for you?
Yes. You know what? It's
you.
I think we can do it for each other, for sure. Yeah.
Well, that's, that's exactly what I mean because, you might remember this
from, from our experience in Park City.
I think we talked about the five-part process.
The... And if we didn't, maybe you get to, uh-
I'm thinking I, I, maybe. Maybe. There was so much.
I know. There was.
Like, there was so much coming. I have all these notes.
Spit it out. Definitely.
Like, yeah, so-
The one, what I'm thinking of now-
I think-
... is exactly... Okay, let me give you a little background, 'cause this goes back
to an old Brian Regan routine, and he's one of my
favorite comedians. I mean, he's clean, family-friendly-
Mm-hmm
... and just funny. He's goofy.
Mm-hmm.
And I kinda relate to that. But he was talking about Pop-Tarts
and how his doctor told him he needed to get more fruit, and so- ...
he's thinking, "Yeah, there's a little layer in there," right?
And then he talked about the instructions
for Pop-Tarts. Like, could there be a simpler food
item? And there's, like, three steps.
Anyway, made a big deal out of that, and he's like, "Who is it
that sits around with a box of Pop-Tarts in front of them and they're like,
'How do I get this goodness in me?'"
You don't need instructions, right?
But the reason that came to mind for me is because we've got
these powerful principles and models that we're learning
on this challenge this week-
Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm
... or that in your coaching-
Mm-hmm
... and in your group.
Mm-hmm.
And the question is, how do I get this
goodness in me?
Mm-hmm.
This positivity, these powerful principles,
and, and your point is so well-taken because until we see it as
a choice, it's not, and we just roll with whatever our current programming is.
And I think that's, yeah, like, like, that's our default, right?
We don't even realize that there's another option.
Right. So these five, these
five, this five-part process of getting it in me
is encounter,
recognize, embrace,
live, and share.
All right? So just to take a quick look at those: encounter-
Mm-hmm
... recognize, embrace, live, and share.
Uh-huh.
Encounter is the first step, and there are people who will
never even know where to look.
And so in your marketing, for example, you put things out there
where they-
Mm-hmm
... might be and they might be able to encounter this for the first time.
Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
I mean, even being here in the VIP room where people are like, "Janelle
is a reality TV star?"
And I guarantee some of them have already Googled you.
Yeah, yeah. It's okay.
Yeah.
You'll probably find a lot of interesting stuff.
You'll find all kinds of things, people.
Mm-hmm.
So, so when you, when you encounter, I mean, how do you encounter
it? And people will, will see something on Facebook or they'll
hear a talk or listen to a podcast or whatever, right?
Mm-hmm.
Recognize is when it clicks
because I think built into the human soul
is a recognition
mechanism that allows truth to touch
you, and some people talk about that as a spiritual
experience. It can be an aha moment.
Whatever it is, the lights go on, and you recognize the
true principle. And then embrace is where
we reprogram because we're already used to our old glasses.
Mm-hmm.
So we get, we get to reprogram our
thinking.
Mm-hmm.
Do... You're wearing your watch on your other hand now.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. That doesn't feel right.
No. I keep thinking, "Do I really have to keep this on all day on
this?"
Well... You can't.
Yeah.
Right? I mean, just do as whatever your brain does.
That's gonna-
Yeah
... tell it.
Yeah. Yeah.
And then re- embrace is, is the one we just talked about.
Live.
Mm-hmm.
Once you reprogram it, I mean, it can be in your mind and heart, but until it gets
in your shoes, it doesn't make a transformation.
Mm-hmm.
You're, you're an example to me, Janelle, of
transformation as you're taking on life
on purpose and-
Oh
... creating what is to be, right? That requires that it gets in your
shoes, walks around in your life.
Mm-hmm.
And then step five is very natural.
You want to share, which is another reason I
invited you
because every time I see the lights go on for you-
Yeah
... you share stories with me about how you're sharing that with people that you
can reach.
Yeah. Um, right, and I think
sharing is almost maybe that first, that almost leads to more encounters
for somebody else, right? 'Cause I, I run into-
Yeah
... a lot of people that are like, "What? What? What is coaching?
Like, what? What do you, what do you do?" Like they just don't-
Uh-huh
... they don't know.
Sure.
And, and honestly, coaching is really just the
gateway to show people that they have choices, and to be aware
of what's going on, you know, in their head when they, when they see those
choices. Like-
So often
... what do they ha- I mean, when they're not recognizing it.
Mm-hmm.
But they know that they need to do something.
They know that they can't stay where they're at anymore.
Right.
I think it's just kind of showing them that there is a
choice.
And that, like you said, that might be their
encounter.
Mm-hmm.
The... I know, Janelle, just based on what I know about you
and who you are and what kind of an energy you're bringing
to-Um, the, the responsibility, the
stewardship that you have. I mean, having millions of people know about you
because of your-
Mm-hmm
... television experience-
Mm-hmm, mm-hmm
... puts you in a position of responsibility-
Mm-hmm
... simply because you're visible.
Mm-hmm.
And if you're visible, can someone encounter that principle for
the first time under your voice?
You know, yeah, I think obviously that feels like a huge
responsibility.
I know.
It feels like an honor. It feels like a huge honor, and then I'm always like, "Oh,
my gosh, what if I don't do it right?"
Then all that pressure starts to come in, right?
With the, well, I may not do this right.
And then that you have your own little in- idiosyncrasies that show up.
But, um-
There you go being human again, Janelle.
Yeah. Yeah, right. But I... It's hard when
you, when you finally get it and
it really permeates your whole world to not be
talking about it to everybody, to not be sharing.
Um,
and then I think the trick is really hearing it in a way that people can
understand, right? Translating it through
various filters-
Right
... to help people engage with it. Um,
and just always be talking about it.
Yeah.
Always be sharing. I, I don't-
And that-
It's the most interesting experience to be able to just wanna talk about it all the
time.
So when you get to the share phase, and you are, Janelle-
Mm-hmm
... at that.
Mm-hmm.
But you don't know all the principles yet.
You still get to encounter, recognize-
I know, right. Yes, I have. In fact, I just wrote all it down.
I'm like, "Oh, I don't know if I knew that," so.
But-
Every time we talk it's that way, you know? So.
Yeah.
Well, as you share, so you're creating a, an encounter
experience for other people.
Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
But then you said, okay, how are you gonna present it in a way that they will
recognize it?
There we go. Yes. There.
Right.
That. Yeah, like you have to be able to recognize it, so you have to figure out
what that key is.
And then even when the lights go on, and I'm seeing this with the challenge, 'cause
the people are reaching out to me, they're like, "Ah, ah, ah." You
know, the, the lights are going on. Okay.
Now how are we gonna program that-
Mm-hmm
... into our thinking? Because our default is whatever we're used to.
You're still-
Mm-hmm
... gonna put your, your watch on your other hand tomorrow.
Yeah. Yeah.
So-
So you have to embrace it, right? And then you have to, then you have to figure out
how to live it, and that would be what you're talking about, how to-
Right
... make it part of who you are and how you
think.
Going back to your watch for just a minute.
Uh-huh, uh-huh.
What if for whatever weird reason you decided, "Oh, you know what?
It's better to be on my right hand." And you probably won't, but
what if you did? Then it'd be like, "Oh, well,
okay. I'm gonna stick with this until I'm used to it."
Yeah. Look, I've often thought, "Why do we wear it on our left hand?
That's dumb." So maybe, maybe right hand, 'cause, you
know, you're right-handed. I am. And so I'm always like, I don't know, that could
become a thing for me. That might be easier for me. I don't, I don't know.
I'll have to think about it. So.
And how much of our other habits are just dumb, as you
said?
Yeah.
You know?
'Cause it's custom-
But, but-
... or it's tradition or-
Yeah.
... you inherit, you inherited it, the thought process or, or
whatever, right? Like, it's just the way it is.
Right.
And we have so many of these things that are just, we think of it as it, that's
just the way it is. That's reality.
Um,
and our thoughts are so much become facts, like our thoughts
become
just the way it is.
Yeah. Ah, Janelle, it's
always fun to talk to you.
Yeah.
Thanks.
But that's what I... Yeah, that's what I was thinking about is just that we always
have choices, but sometimes you don't know you have a
choice. And I think it's awesome to be able to share with
people that they do have choices.
Yes. This is what I just put in the comments.
It says, "I moved my watch too, and I kinda-"
Yeah. No, I'm like, I think this could...
It would be really a change, right?
It's like putting on your shoes a different, the, the glasses.
It's shoes on different feet. It would feel really weird at first.
Yeah.
But you practice it because you're curious, right?
You're just curious, and I think curiosity is huge.
I think even being curious might be the first, one of the first steps is that
curiosity. Like, is there something different?
Yeah.
Like you said, it is what it is or, like, the owner or the agent and
the, victim, it's like, well, if not this, then what?
I mean, that's what you often use is that question, right?
The if not this, then what. That curiosity I think might be the
spark that helps ignite
that, you know, that searching.
The... I, I, I think you're right on it because until we
disrupt something, we just roll with whatever the programming is.
Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
If we change it, it doesn't feel right.
Mm-hmm.
That doesn't mean it's wrong.
It means you're not used to it.
Mm-hmm.
And so, and you know this w- from your experience as a coach, when someone
tries-
Mm-hmm
... on a new thought-
... it doesn't feel right at first.
No.
It's like learning how to-
Yeah. It's-
... stand really foreign at first.
Mm-hmm.
And for a while.
Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
So get into the practitioner mode rather than the
consumer mode.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Now we gotta get into some Q&A. Thank you.
All right.
So fun.
Yeah, I appreciate you letting me be here. That's awesome. So.
Oh, always a pleasure to talk to you.
All right. Cool.
I'm gonna go ahead and put you back in your seat.
That's awesome.
And you can-
Cool
... participate in the Q&A as much as you want.
Okay.
All right. All right. Thanks.
Thank you, Janelle. Oh, that was fun.
And I saw Jen in the comments you said, "Yes, it was so fun being in
Park City with you." 'Cause you were there.
You were in that, that event with us, weren't ya? Let's see.
Karen, yikes, I don't remember the five part.
Encounter,
recognize, and you've got access to the recording, so I don't have to slow it down
too much. Encounter, recognize,
embrace,
which I sometimes call reprogram,
live-And
share. You got it there, Karen?
Zoila, you said you moved your watch.
Jen, you put your shoes on different feet. I know.
It doesn't feel right, does it? It doesn't mean that it's wrong, it's just not what
you're used to. And you can get by
with your shoes on different feet.
My grandkids have proven that.
Cool. Okay, I'm gonna go to the Q&A.
Q&A is open, the chat is open. Let's get to
whatever questions you're having
so that we can, th- make the most of this VIP
experience. Jen: "I dropped this on my main Facebook
feed today and tagged all my coach mentors and friends, but you
aren't on socials to my knowledge." Actually, I've-- You know
what, Jen? I've been away from Facebook probably for a couple
of years, and there might be a thing or two there that came through 'cause I
tried some Instagram stories and things like that, but I'm back for the
challenge. And if we're not connected there, we need to be,
okay? Um, and your daughter, you say, "I like them on the
wrong feet." Um, let me finish, what you wrote
here. "Thought I'd ask here. Would love your
thoughts. Emily, Katie, and Anna all responded on the post
already." Wonderful. I'll go look, okay?
Um, connect with me on Facebook
and l- and let's continue the conversation there.
"What if you're failing and succeeding at the same
time? What if the failures are success?"
Thoughts. How do you define success? How do you d- define failure?
Jen, I love where your brain's going with this because you're doing the
metacognition. You're thinking about your thinking when you
say, "W- wait, how do we define success?
How do we define failure? What if I'm failing?"
Well, who authorized you to be the judge of whether
it's success or failure?
That's a weird question because we know that we're right about, "I did fail."
Really? Really?
Jen, I have been podcasting since two
thousand and seven.
That's before podcasting was even a thing. And I have interviewed...
I'm up to, Lindy could probably check the
number, but we're like, we're almost at seven hundred episodes
now, and most of those are interviews with authors,
thought leaders, speakers, am- amazing people on this
planet. And here's the thing that I have seen
consistently over all of those interviews:
Failure, the way we typically define it, is
part of the process for success.
It's part of the process.
So
if it's part of a process, then it's not a destination, it's part of
the journey. And,
there's a couple of quotes that come to mind. Robert Kiyosaki, all right?
He's the author of Rich Dad Poor Dad.
He's, he's written lots of books that have just
transformed the way people look at personal finance,
including me.
Um, s- Robert Kiyosaki said this: "If you want
to succeed, start
failing faster."
Um, Wayne Gretzky: "You will miss one hundred
percent of the shots you don't take."
Uh, John Maxwell wrote a book called Failing
Forward.
Uh, Robert Kiyosaki, John Maxwell, come on,
right? Who are we to say that we failed when some of
the arguably most successful people on the planet
see that as part of the process?
I th- and you're already thinking some of this, Jen, I know that you
are. Um,
you will be failing, you will be succeeding, as long as you are
moving forward. And if you want to avoid failing, just park
the car. Although that would be a failure in so many
ways, right? Keep the car moving. You can steer a moving
car, and you will learn things from every fail.
What if instead of failures, we call them learning experiences?
And what if we need to learn a bunch of stuff to get to wherever it is we wanna
be?
I'm, I'm kind of... I'm picturing your face, Jen, as I'm talking
to you here, and I think I can see that that's
landing. All right. Let's see what else we got
here. "Bigger changes also require
bravery." Zoila, yes. The,
because the stakes are bigger, you feel it
more. Um, I just invested in my
next coaching experience. This is where I'm hiring
coaches. I think I've shared with you, I owe it to you,
if I'm gonna be your coach, I owe it to you to have my coach,
is coaches. And I've got so many who
have just transformed the way that I think.
Um,
I'm investing at a higher level
because I expect higher returns
on that investment
and, and it feels like a stretch. If you
are comfortable, you're not thinking big
enough, meaning in your comfort zone, you're not
growing. And it's not that you have to grow.
May I remind you, this isn't just about us.
This is not just about us. I have enough.
I have enough. I'm good.
If I were doing this for me, I wouldn't do
it.Because I have enough
and Vicky and I are reaching a point where, you know, retirement, go see the
grandkids. Vicky's gonna retire from the school district here in the next year or
two
and I-- retirement isn't even on my radar because what
would that mean? I'm not doing this for me.
I'm doing this because there are people that I still need to
reach. You know, a good friend of mine, shared this with
me. Uh, this was my first financial advisor.
His name's Les McGuire. He passed away in a tragic
plane crash
when I was supposed to be on the radio with him the next
morning,
and I got that news and it was just a shock.
I went on the radio. This was live radio through Ktalk in Salt Lake City,
and I grabbed one of the other co-hosts to go on and announce
to all the listeners that this plane crash had happened and he's no
longer with us,
Les McGuire. And I was sitting in his home out in Alpine,
Utah. He was on his hammock
and, and he, he, he shared that he, he was on
that same hammock, a couple of weeks earlier, I
think. I can't remember all the details, but he was thinking this.
He was thinking, "You know, I can
honestly say
that I have enough."
And he, he-- it was like this realization that opened up to him.
I have enough. I'm, I am abundantly and richly
blessed. I absolutely have enough.
And as he let that land in his mind and heart,
he felt in that moment-- He was, he was kind of a
spiritually oriented man. We're both men of faith, and we had
conversations all the time about our mission here to
serve our fellow humans. And it was in that
context that he received a rebuke
from the Spirit. Okay? And whether you believe
in that or not, I think the story
really holds its place here. He felt rebuked by
whatever spirit he felt had called him to this work.
And it sounded like this: "Oh,
so which of your fellow humans are you not
going to serve and bless and elevate and
enrich
because you have enough?"
And he felt so rebuked. And I, I
really relate to that because what I'm doing now-- I don't know how I got off on
all of this. Jen, you did it probably.
And Zoila, your comment about bigger changes require bigger bravery.
Yes, because comfort would say, "I'm
done. I'm good. I've got enough." And
it's true. And I would not move forward
and, and increase
the joy of my fellow humans with what I've been entrusted
with.
So yeah, it requires bravery. And in fact on, on Friday
we're gonna get into what it means to be committed,
okay? And courage, we'll talk about that word a lot too.
I'm gonna save some of that for Friday.
Um, Zoila says, "That is an interesting thought.
I think that is true. Even if it's a change that you have to make or for whatever
reason, I think it would still require bravery." Yes, it would.
Robin says, "Amen to that. Always love and appreciate your insights." Let's
see. I'm trying to, to make sure we-we're picking up
the questions. Jen, you followed me and
tagged me in the post. Awesome. I'll connect to you.
I, I don't know. I'll have to think about whether I wanna be Facebook friends with
you. Of course I will. I'm in the middle of moving
into retirement from a thirty-year career, which for me
translates into looking for my next experience because I cannot
imagine not doing anything. Right?
Zoila, I have-- I, I coach
some retired, CEOs
a-and they're used to playing on a big scale,
and retirement
for a lot of people means you stop
working. Now, psychologically this
is a problem because what do we do
with something that stops
working? We toss
it. We toss it, and so many
people die
shortly after retirement. I think it's psychological.
We just had-- I've got a, a small group of, of
private clients, it's called the Positivity Artisans Group.
In fact, Janelle, you're part of that group and you know that we, we read
books together. We just read book, a book called The Expectation Effect
by Robson, I believe is the author,
and I had a conversation about that on our group call just yesterday
with our Positivity Artisans. And in this
book, it, it really emphasizes what has
come to be known as the self-fulfilling
prophecy, and this can happen at a subconscious level.
Okay? So
when we believe something, it's more likely to
become true. Listen to what I said there.
When we believe something, it's more likely to
become true
because that's the template we're giving our brain to go out there and
create what is to be. So this, this
tradition around retirement being we stop working
isn't working,
and in fact it's killing off a lot of brilliant people who are entering
a phase of life-Where they have what, Arthur
Brooks calls crystallized intelligence.
Arthur wrote-- This is another one we read with our artisans group, From Strength
to Strength. And Zoila, I would recommend that one for you
From Strength to Strength by Arthur
Brooks. Um,
wow. He, he talks about how we have this fluid
intelligence when we're younger and we're very
creative, and we're doing all kinds of, innovation
and whatnot. And then when we get to a certain point in life, it turns into
what he calls crystallized intelligence.
And crystallized intelligence is where we are able to
synthesize and draw from rich,
abundant life experience in ways that creates
massive value for the world if we know how to
shift from what we were doing to what we
will be doing. We're not gonna stop working
because work is one of the nine principles that supports,
a positive life. And- and but we can define it differently.
And I also love the way Dan Sullivan talks about it. You can get me going.
Um, so we probably need to talk more about some of that,
but, love the comment there. Laura says,
"What would you do with something I deal with
daily? Our special needs
daughter has no concept of time,
and we are usually running late for time-sensitive
meetings such as work, church, et cetera." Yeah, 'cause those
things start at a particular time, right? Oh, it's not on that yet.
Um,
start at a particular time. Um,
"How can I be thankful, positive
agent in this situation? I have lots of blessings by being
her mom." I'm sure you do, Laura. I am sure of that.
"This is just one of our hugest things that I'd like to deal with
better than I do. It causes so much stress.
I don't like it. I've tried rewards, et cetera."
Okay, Laura, let's just take this on for a minute because it is what it
is. And what it is is
your daughter has some special needs that
includes this feature. Okay? Now, I
don't know what oth- what other features are
included, but you also know as
a special needs mom
that we make adaptations based on the
context of the features that our children
display. Okay? So, let me
just use a really obvious
example. Some of the special needs kids that I've worked with
are not ambulatory, meaning they're in
a wheelchair.
Now, those families, what, what would
it look like if, if the family was like, "Oh, I've just
got to get this kid out of the wheelchair.
It's so inconvenient"? Okay, now I'm, I'm overemphasizing
that just to illustrate the point.
The feature for that particular child is
not ambulatory,
and whatever you wanna... Or maybe a double amputee
or something. I could-- Whatever.
I mean, make up the feature however you want to.
You would adapt to that
feature, and if it were that
obvious, you wouldn't sit around complaining that
this kid just isn't getting it, would you?
And I'm not saying you're doing that, Laura, but I would invite you
to really take a look at your, your thinking
around this. If you are
frustrated, I think you
mentioned that word, didn't you?
"Causes
so much stress." Stress is the word that you used.
I look for three, three indicator feelings, and stress kind of is
a more general term. But the, the feelings I look for are
frustration, anger, and
resentment.
And I look at those as indicator feelings, and
what they indicate
is that I
am thinking about this in a way that is not
productive. Okay? And it's misleading
because anger, frustration, and resentment, it's really easy to
interpret those feelings as an indicator that somebody else
needs to change something, and we know who it is.
So
I don't-- Let's do a little mental experiment real quick. Laura, will you play?
Um, here's the experiment. We take your daughter
into a brain scan. All right? We've got
imaging technology that allows us to identify what's
going on in the brain, and we're surprised as we get into this brain
scan. I don't know if you've ever even done a brain scan for her.
I'm just totally making this up. But we, we discover that there
is a golf ball-sized hole
in her brain, and it's the part of her
brain that allows her to be on time for
anything.
Okay, now,
what would that change for you
if we knew? And that's ridiculous, right?
We're not gonna find a golf ball-sized hole in her brain.
This is-- But maybe we would. Remember,
we were surprised in the story.
What? She-- Wait, so her brain's not
capable of this? Now, if that were true, Laura, what would change for
you? And I'm guessing instead of feeling frustrated or
stressed, you'd just be like, "Oh, well, that's one of the features we get to deal
with.Because if I take my kid to church in a
wheelchair, I'm hoping that the church is
ADA compliant and that there's a ramp
going up to the chapel, right? Most
people don't even use that, but I would if that were one of the features of
my kids. So wh- what accommodations do you make
based on the features of whatever the special needs
are? Does that help a little? And you can, you can
respond or not. It's up to you, but I hope that that, that might at least
tickle the brain
stem a little bit there for you. All right, Carrie,
Dr. Carrie.
"I love the five steps. My question is when my
thirteen-year-old is spiraling in
victim mode, 'I can't do
it.'" I know that's a
common one for teenagers, isn't it?
"Is there a tool you suggest to get him into agency mode
in the moment?"
That-- You know what? That triggers a lot of things for me, Carrie, actually.
But go back to the five steps, okay?
Because where is your thirteen-year-old?
Is he at the point of encounter, recognize, embrace,
live, or share when it comes to the principle of
victim versus agent?
Just do a little assessment. See where he is. Is he even aware?
Has he even en-encountered this? Maybe he has,
maybe he hasn't. Maybe the recording of today's session would be
a good thing
to watch together
or to offer a reward if he can answer a quick quiz about
it or whatever, right? So we're gonna handle it wherever he
is. Now, he might be exposed to it. Does he get it?
Does he see that it's true? And if not, we may need to
adjust the way we deliver it.
Um, here's an example of that. I...
And, and this is a different, model.
Carrie, you're familiar with this one too, the moral development
model. And some of you might be thinking, "How does Dr.
Paul know Dr. Carrie?" A lot of the
people here in our VIP area are positivity
practitioners.
Actually, I'm gonna tell you a little bit more about that tomorrow because that's a
different level. We've got, we've got the general membership
here at Live on Purpose Central, which
is, you know, people who are signing up for courses and, and
going through, you know, our... the, the services that are
available there. And then there's a whole other level up here called
positivity practitioners, and then there's, there's a level above
that that I mentioned with Janelle. We've got our positivity artisans.
But at the practitioner level, we're all about sharing this.
We're all about getting
certified in these mo- And certification's not required, but it's
one of the available features there at that level, and that's why I seem to
know some people here, 'cause we work and play together on that
practitioner level. Okay, I got away from your question, Carrie.
But going back to this one,
this, this model, the moral development
model, is one that I think kids need to know.
Now, you're talking about something different with the victim-agent thing, right,
with your son. But I'm using this as an example because I want kids to know
this. If I teach this to kids the way I teach it to parents,
sometimes they get it,
and sometimes they're just like, "Uh," they've encountered but they didn't really
recognize, right? So what I've done
is created some videos on YouTube where I teach this to
kids. If you wanna see the example, go to, go to my
YouTube channel and look up... Or just go to Google. You can search this.
You'll find it. How to convince my parents
to get a dog,
okay? And that's how, where I present it to young kids, and then I did another
video called How to Convince Your Parents to Get You a
Phone. That's a little more
teen-oriented, right? So,
I use that as an example because if he's
already encountered it, we might need to look at ways to help him
get it
so the lights go on for him, and there's a lot of things we can do at that
level. Um, so when you say, "Are there tools you suggest to
get him into agency mode in the moment?" that's where my brain
went with it, okay? Where is he in the encounter, recognize, embrace, live, and
share process, and can we
provide, the next thing
for him, whatever that is? And if he hasn't even seen it, then we want
him to encounter it, and you can do that with, you know, a replay of
this, this session today or whatever.
Does that help, Carrie? Hope so.
All right, let's go to... I'm just gonna check back in on the
chat.
Oh, got a couple of people I have to take off.
Got the master class going on.
Awesome. Yeah, you guys, you're busy too.
I'm just honored that you would hang out with me here today.
Let's see. Um,
Jen says, "Always love and appreciate your insights.
Definitely landing." Yeah, I kinda thought it would for you, Jen.
Cynthia: "Yes, that's what I have started telling people.
It's a new opportunity or way to learn, not failure." Yeah, so
you're going back to the failure thing, right, Cynthia?
I mean, we've got this traditional view of failure as that's a bad
thing. Is it? What if it's part of the
process, right? An opportunity or way to learn, not
failure. Love that. Yolande: "I totally agree with that.
Learning that I will fail on the way to achieving my
goals." Yes, you will.
And, and you know what? Here's another thing.
I, I did a, a whole, master class
on-Face your giants. Some of you
may have been part of that. And I use that as an acronym for how you're
going to overcome whatever barriers are out there in front of
you. And, one of the, my favorite things to
say there is nothing can be in
your way
unless you're on your way.
Nothing can be in your way unless you're on your
way. Don't you love that?
Ah, that, that's what that brought up for me,
Yolande. Let's see. I, I went backwards a
little bit 'cause I'm trying to catch some of the chat here.
Jen's starting her master class in 15 minutes. Man, I wish I was in that room.
I guess I wasn't invited, but we'll be connected on Facebook now,
Jen, so maybe I'll see what you're doing.
Um,
fallen so many times, but I keep getting up.
You do Robin, don't you? You fall-- I mean, failing,
falling, they're almost the same word.
If you look at it from the other side of the room, they almost look
identical. Um, failure equals
feedback. Ooh, juicy Rose. Love
that. Failure equals feedback, and
feedback is information. Can I just, comment about
that for a minute? Because we give feedback all the time, and some of it is
unsolicited, right? People sh- tell us
that we're idiot, for example. I'm just using that as a ridiculous
example. Or is it? Um, you're an idiot.
Okay, that's feedback.
It doesn't mean you're an idiot. In fact, feedback
is information
about the source of the
feedback. Listen to what I just said.
Feedback is information
about the source of the feedback.
So if somebody tells me I'm an idiot, that doesn't necessarily
mean anything about me. It means something about them.
And what does it mean about them? That that
person experiences
me as an idiot, or more
accurately, that person
has communicated to me that they experience
me as an idiot.
And for whatever reason, they made a choice to communicate that to me. Okay.
Well, that's all about them. Huh, I wonder what's going on in their
life
that has them wanting to communicate that to me in the first place.
And second,
thank you. I'll check. And
then I go check. Am I an
idiot? I don't feel like an idiot. I mean, I got a
PhD, I got a lot of life experience, yada,
yada, yada. Um,
that doesn't fit for me. Huh, I wonder if there's something in
my behavior that has that person
experiencing me as an idiot. And then I can go back to
the context. Well, what, what might have triggered that in the first place?
Oh, it was that thing I posted on YouTube.
Oh, I get it. Okay. Yeah. And maybe I said
something-- Yeah. I've said things to you in
this VIP experience that are not easy to
hear. And if you want it easy, go hire
somebody else. If you want what works, stick around,
and I promise to speak truth to you.
And it may not always be easy to hear, and that's okay because
my loving coaches have done the same for me
and, and it's been transformational for me in my
life. Uh, Doris, can you repeat the
five things you have mentioned? Too fast for me to hear
then. Yes, absolutely. And remember, you have access to
the recordings. And by the way, I got a couple of emails.
Doris, I think you were one of the emails that I got
about, "Hey, where's the recording?" I think what happened, you
guys, is that I automated the email sequence to go out after the
session, and the recordings aren't necessarily up when the
email hits, but within twenty-four hours it will
be there. And usually it's a lot less.
Usually it's like within the next couple of hours it'll be there.
The recordings aren't even uploaded yet.
I'm still recording, and it-- after I shut down the
Zoom, then it has to process on my computer.
I upload it to a particular website.
I give the link to my tech guy. You see where we're going.
And then he is the one that goes and populates our, our replay page.
But the emails are already automated.
So you might get an email that says, "Your recording's ready," and it's
a lie. And I apologize for lying to you
'cause I just said I'm gonna speak truth to you.
And I got a... Oh, Doris, you wanted to-- the five things again.
Okay. This is... Once again, this is the
process by which principles, and I show you
these cards sometimes because I'm talking about the principles of positive
psychology, the models that we work with, the tools that we
need to create and live a life that we love and to experience
emotional freedom. How does that goodness get in me?
And that's what these five steps are.
Encounter, and I'll pause while you write that
down. Encounter is all about where am I gonna see it?
Where am I going to encounter this for the first time, or where
will anyone encounter it?
And if we just hide it under a rock or a bushel
somewhere, nobody's gonna see it. I mentioned the bushel.
One of my friends on Face-- no, on LinkedIn, I
was, I was seeing, um... He shared an example.
This is so cool. I'm just gonna depart for a minute.From this, Doris.
By the way, number two is recognize. Start writing that down.
Um, on LinkedIn, he shared that he was in this big event.
It was at the Marriott Center just a few miles from here.
This is a big basketball arena at Brigham Young University, and it
can seat twenty thousand people. And they were having a special
meeting where the, the
leader of the LDS Church, the Church of Jesus C****t of
Latter-day Saints, Dallin H. Oaks, was giving a
speech. And so everybody was showing up.
The-- If you're not aware, Brigham Young University
is owned and operated by the Church of Jesus C****t of Latter-day Saints, so this
is a big deal. This is the president of church showing up.
Not just the university, the whole church, a worldwide
organization. So people are lining up, and they're coming in to fill
up the seats in that big Marriott Center.
And people, you know, they come in, and they sit wherever they're comfortable.
Well, there's a lot of people outside that don't have a seat yet, and it looks
full, but it's not full. There's a lot of empty seats in
between. And somebody had a brilliant
idea to take care of this 'cause they were asking, you know, the ushers were, "Can
you scoot to the middle?" K- And they even made an announcement, "Everybody scoot
to the middle." Wasn't working, okay?
There's still a lot of people trying to get in. It's almost time to start.
And so they said this: "Hold up your
light." Think about that for a minute.
That is cool. Hold up your light if there's an empty seat next to
you, and all of a sudden, the
whole, the whole stadium lit up. Oh, there's a seat
there, there, there, there, there, all over the place, thousands of them, right?
And so a lot of people came in, and there were still people waiting.
And so they made another announcement.
They said, "Hold up your light until someone
comes." Ooh,
that's rich, isn't it? That is rich, and especially
in an environment like that that's very based in the, in the Christian faith
and tradition. Hold up your light.
And there's a scripture about if you've got a light or a candle, do you put
it on a candlestick so everybody can see it, or do you put it under a bushel so
nobody can see it? And that's where the bushel reference just came from.
So encounter, recognize. Are you with me, Doris?
Keep it up this time. Um, embrace is
next. That's where we do the reprogramming
because even once you encounter it, and you recognize it as truth,
that doesn't mean that it's going to be your
natural way of thinking. That's why today
your challenge is upside-down. You do
something on purpose
that, that disrupts your pattern, okay?
Something you're used to that you do routinely, turn it on its head.
Teach your brain something about what it's like to
reprogram. And you don't even have to do it permanently.
Just experiment with it for a day. And if you, um...
Here's a fun one. Start studying Swahili.
I did that, actually. I started studying Swahili.
I'm, I'm really leaning in with Spanish right now.
I'm already fluent in Finnish, but I picked up Swahili a little
bit in Duolingo. It feels weird. It sounds so foreign.
It doesn't sound like any of the other languages that I've learned.
Um, but I'm going to Kenya in a couple of weeks, and so I thought, "Yeah, why not
learn a few things?" Um, that's
embrace. Live is next. That's number
four.
That's where you get these principles into your shoes.
It walks around in your life. And by the way,
that in and, in and of itself is sharing because people will see
that. What if people in your home or in your neighborhood or in
your organization, your team, start
to see you showing up differently, and they're like,
"Wait. Wait, what's different
here?" Right? I mean, that's a form of sharing, and that's number five, Doris,
share. Did you get that?
Got it. Thank you.
Thank you for bringing it up again. And Rose just put it in the chat too.
Encounter, recognize, embrace, live, and share.
Y- And you know what? I know a lot of you guys are practitioners, and
maybe more of you will be by the time we're done.
I want you to just consider that. I'll tell you more about that tomorrow and how
you can go to that level because i-i-
if you think it's transformational to receive, to
encounter, and to recognize these principles,
wait till you're living and sharing them.
Oh, my heavens.
My, my life rocks, and it's because I
do this regularly. This is my
practice. It's all I do, just share these principles, and as a
result, my life just keeps getting better.
But it-- That's the selfish part, okay?
Your life will keep getting better. That's the selfish part.
Who is it that needs us to show up powerfully
with the principles that can change their lives?
We'll get back in on that tomorrow, okay?
I think I've cleared the Q&A. I think we're up to date on the chat, and I
think it's high noon Mountain Time, two o'clock
Eastern Time. That was the time I promised we'd be wrapping up.
So I will see you back here tomorrow.
There's still time to share if you know people who would like to join us either
here in the VIP or simply on the Facebook
group. Let's share this as far and wide as we can.
You honor me with your presence. I'm honored to be on your team.
I'll see you tomorrow. Bye-bye.